---
layout: post
tags: [non-technical]
title: "Blend"
published: True
images:
    - url: https://blend.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/blend-logotype.png
      alt: Cover
      title: Cover
---

I just finished working for a year at Blend, and now I'm back at UCLA as a student. 

Working full-time was actually quite a bit different from what I expected.
I wanted to talk a bit about the things I did, and what I liked/didn't like about working full-time at Blend. 

**NOTE:** Take what I say with a huge grain of salt, as this is just my personal experience ($$n=1$$). 

### What I Did:

At Blend, I deployed and maintained several internal data servies:
- Airflow - Airbnb tool responsible for scheduling Blend's ETL jobs
- DSTB (data science toolbox) - Hosted jupyter notebooks with easy connection to our Redshift cluster.
- $$\log R$$ - Blend's log archive pipeline, which has now ingests a variety of different data sources, such as frontend event data.

I also spent a lot of time working on a variety of more nebulous machine learning projects to improve Blend's product: 
- using an RNN to predict user submission
- Trying to cluster our NPS comments 
- using deep learning to identify "forzen" NPS comments. 

Most of these fizzled out, but the frozen NPS classifier is still being used today.

I also spent a lot of time writing documentation/specs/tests, resolving on-call issues, reviewing code, and sitting in meetings.

Something that suprised me was just the sheer volume of "other" work that needs to be done, and the relative importance of it. I think the most effective engineers don't necessarily spend a lot of their time writing code, but rather managing/organizing. This is definitely something that I didn't anticipate doing (or at least that I would spend the majority of my time doing these things vs. writing code).

I also came out of this with a huge newfound appreciation for good PMs, they really have a huge effect on engineering productivity. 

### Things I like about working full-time:

Industry in general felt a lot more practical than academia. There's not really a "right" approach, it really depends.

- aka tech debt, I'm gonna write a bunch of shitty code but that's okay because this isn't going to scale.
- There's a lot of cases where premature optimization kills a problem
- There's a lot of cases where we failed to plan out our projects correctly.

Blend felt like it was solving a meaningful problem. I remember I had an Uber 

Another thing I like is that at work, so long as I can solve the problem, nobody really cares what I do.
Copy code, or pay for a service instead of building in-house.
You're encouraged not to reinvent the wheel, to use libraries.

You spend 40 hours of week trying to accomplish this one goal, or this one project, and that's really cool, because there's not a lot of context switching.

I think the biggest thing that I enjoy about working is simply building things. 

Seeing something that you wrote getting pushed into production is a very satisfing experience. There's a great sense of excitement at Blend (it's a rocketship so just get on and ride along)

There's a sense of community too at work. 

I felt like I was given a lot of leeway in my design, implementation, and execution.

### Things I don't like about working full-time:

I think the biggest thing I don't like about working is that I think you get pidgeonholed.
Any task you do once is something you'll probably have to do millions of time, even if it's as a favor.
At the same time it's sometimes hard to branch out because you still have an obligation to maintain code. 

One of the biggest reasons that I left was that I felt that I was stagnating and not learning anything interesting at work. 

Furthermore, I found myself burnt-out and not very productive  However, I was working on a personal project (Distbelief), that I really liked so I knew it wasn't so much that I was fed up with computer science so much as I was fed up with work.

One thing that was kind of frustrating was that there wasn't much machine learning at Blend and most engineers there are pretty young. I would like to see more experience at the places I work at next.

There were some very good engineers at Blend, and I enjoyed learning from them, but I felt that especially machine learning at Blend was not very well developed. 

On-call rotations was ridiculous. Also I think may times at Blend we were forced to put together a shitty hack rather than taking the time to come up with a more robust solution. 

I joined to work on a ML product, but I didn't experience much of that at Blend. I would say that's a function of the age of the company - can't do data science when you have no data. 
I think in general though, "machine learning" at startups is usually a tier-below what you imagined. 

I think the biggest thing about Blend is that ML is not tied into their core buisness model. ML is not the product, it would just be used to enhance the product. I think in such organizations, the value proposition of ML is pretty minimal. If you really think about it, even the deep-learning autotagger doesn't provide the greatest ROI.

### What I learned

I'm a lot less of a perfectionist now.
I used to try to always search for the optimal solution, but now I feel that I am more methodical in how I approach projects - creating a feedback look and iterating quickly.

Iteration is also inherently way more scalable than doing everything in one go (you can explain to people easier.)

Good software requires legitamite effort (like a lot of it).

I think the best engineers minimize the number of lines of code that they write.

I think for a first job, it was fine to sort of tackle a bunch of things and just do what needed to be done - it's something I enjoy doing too because it helps people at Blend and that's a great feeling. 

But going forwards I don't think I would leave to go work for a company without a well-defined role/project. 

Should have gotten to know more people at Blend, but this is just a general thing. 

Be more collaborative as well.

One of my biggest opinions that has changed after working:

I used to be a big believer in simplicity, and in particular simple elegant problems to complex problems. 
And as such, I really believed that when I got a chance to build a system, it would be extremely extremely simple. 

But now I think building complicated systems is a fundamental part of building a simpler system. 

